to your brethren my people and to your
sisters mercy is shown bring charges
against your mother bringing charges for
she is not my wife nor am i her husband
let her put away her harlotries from her
sight and her adulterer is from between
her breasts lest I strip her naked and
exposing as in the day she was born and
make her like a wilderness and sit her
like a dry land and slay her with thirst
I will not have mercy on her children
for they are the children of harlotry
for their mother has played the harlot
she who conceived them has behaved
shamefully for she said I will go after
my lovers who give me my bread and my
water my wool and my linen my oil and my
drink therefore behold I will hedge up
your way with forms and wall her in so
that she cannot find her paths she will
chase her lover's but not overtake them
yes she will seek them but not find them
then she will say I will go and return
to my first husband for then it was
better for me than now for she did not
know that I gave her grain new wine and
oil and multiplied her silver and gold
which they prepared for bales therefore
I will return and take away my grain in
its time and my new wine in its season
and will take back my wool and my linen
given to cover her naked
now I will uncover her lewdness in the
sight of her lover's and no one shall
deliver her from my hand
I will also cause all her mouth to cease
her feast days and New Moon's her
Sabbath's all her appointed feasts and I
will destroy her vines and her fig trees
of which she has said these are my wages
that my lovers have given me so I will
make them a forest and the beasts of the
field shall eat them I will punish her
for the days of the bales to which she
burned incense she decked herself with
her earrings and jewelry and went after
her lovers but me she forgot their form
behold I will a lure her will bring her
into the wilderness and speak comfort to
her I will give her her vineyards from
there and the valley of Achor as a door
of hope she shall sing there as in the
days of her youth as in the day when she
came up from the land of Egypt and it
shall be in that day that you will call
me my husband and no longer call me my
master for I would take from her mouth
the names of the bales and they shall be
remembered by their name no more in that
day I will make a covenant for them with
the beasts of the field with the birds
of the air and with the creeping things
of the ground bow and sword of battle I
will shatter from the earth to make them
lie down safely
I will betroth you to me forever yes I
will betroth you to me in righteousness
and justice in loving kindness and mercy
I will betroth you to me in faithfulness
and you shall know the Lord it shall
come to pass in that day that I will
answer I will answer the heavens and
they shall answer thee birth the earth
shall answer with grain with new wine
and with oil they shall answer Jerry
then I will sell her for myself in the
earth and I will have mercy on her who
had not obtained mercy then I will say
to those who were not my people you are
my people and they shall say you are my
god